---
title: "Webhook basics"
id: apiWebhookBasics
type: section
documentId: apiDevGuide
parentSectionFile: apiDevGuide-apiUsingWebhooksOmitChunkFromSearchIndex.md
parentSectionTitle: "Using webhooks"
previousSectionFile: apiDevGuide-apiUsingWebhooksOmitChunkFromSearchIndex.md
previousSectionTitle: "Using webhooks"
nextSectionFile: apiDevGuide-apiEndpointRequirements.md
nextSectionTitle: "Endpoint requirements"
excerpt: "This section uses the following webhook terms and concepts:"
keywords: ["webhook", "basics", "partner_added", "partner_removed"]
procedures: 0
codeExamples: 0
---

This section uses the following webhook terms and concepts:


<div className="table-wrapper">
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Term</th>
      <th>Definition</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Webhook</td>
      <td>A Web-based callback that allows the Toast platform to push updates (also known as <em>webhook events</em> ) to webhook consumers, reducing or eliminating the need to poll a Toast API.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Webhook URL</td>
      <td>The URL of a webhook consumer service that is capable of receiving webhook events from the Toast platform.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Event category</td>
      <td>A Toast-defined classification for the type of events a webhook sends. For example, the <code>partners</code> event category sends webhook events related to the addition or removal of partner integrations to a restaurant location.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Event type</td>
      <td>A Toast-defined name for a specific type of webhook event, for example, a <code>partner_added</code> or <code>partner_removed</code> event.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Event GUID</td>
      <td>An identifier for the specific webhook event that is generated by the Toast platform.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Webhook subscription</td>
      <td>Maintained by Toast support, a webhook subscription associates a webhook endpoint with an event category. This defines the type of webhook events that will be sent to the webhook endpoint. A webhook endpoint may be associated with multiple event categories.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Webhook secret</td>
      <td>A secret passphrase generated when a webhook subscription is created. The passphrase is used to sign the contents of a message posted to the endpoint associated with the webhook subscription. See <a href="apiDevGuide-apiMessageSigning">Message signing</a>. <br/> The secret key is unique for each webhook subscription within an environment. For example, a <code>stock</code> webhook subscription has a different secret key than a <code>partner</code> webhook subscription for the same integration partner and within the same environment. For more information about webhook subscriptions, see <a href="apiDevGuide-apiWebhookBasics">Webhook basics</a>. For more information about Toast API environments, see <a href="apiDevGuide-apiEnvironments">Environments</a>.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

